It's not always easy to be a Christian in the world that we are living in.
For us to go on walking in the truth, we need a strong faith.
Especially, do we need a strong faith in Jesus' resurrection?
It's really key to everything that we believe in.
If Jesus was not resurrected, then everything falls apart for us.
Paul said it perfectly in 1 Corinthians 15.
In verse 17, he said,
Further, if Christ was not raised up, your faith is useless.
You remain in your sins.
But if Christ was not raised up, then this life is all there is.
If Christ was not raised up, then he never went to heaven.
He never stood in front of his father and handed over the value of his sacrifice.
Then the ransom was not paid, or as Paul said,
You remain in your sins.
Then there is no forgiveness for sins.
Then there will not be a resurrection.
There is not going to be life or everlasting life for any of us.
If Christ was not raised up, then your faith is useless.
For us, a strong faith in Jesus' resurrection is really key for us to go on walking in the truth.
Why is it that we can be sure that Jesus was resurrected?
If you still have your Bible open here to 1 Corinthians 15,
we find one of the proofs here in verse 3 through 8.
I'm not going to read it all, but just point out that in verse 3,
it says that Christ died in verse 4, that he was raised up on the third day.
Verse 5, he appeared to see this.
And to the 12th, in verse 6, appeared to 500 brothers at one time.
And most of them was still alive, some had died.
In verse 7, he appeared to James, and in verse 8, also to Paul.
There are witnesses, there are lots of witnesses.
The 12th, 500, James, and also Paul.
Are they reliable witnesses?
After all, we can't talk to them.
I would have liked to bring them in here one other time and ask them some questions.
My first question would be, did you personally see Jesus resurrected?
How close were you? Could you hear his voice?
Close enough that you could touch him?
Are you really sure that you saw Jesus resurrected?
I mean, that's not going to happen, but we can't ask him any questions.
But is there any way we can know if they were really sure
that they had seen Jesus resurrected?
Yeah, there is.
Because of the way they lived their life after Jesus' resurrection,
we know that they were sure that they had seen him resurrected.
Take the apostles.
After Jesus' resurrection, now they live a life where they are persecuted.
Some of them even executed.
I mean, do you think that they would be willing to live a life in persecution
and being executed if they were not sure?
But they did go through that because they were sure that they had seen Jesus resurrected.
Or take the 500.
Paul mentioned that at the time when he wrote this, most of them was still alive.
And we know that just a few years later, severe persecution broke out.
Many were sent to the arenas.
Some were burned alive.
I mean, would they be willing to go through that if they were not sure?
But they did go through that because they had seen Jesus resurrected.
James was also mentioned.
Likely, this is Jesus' half-brother, James.
Because we know from John 7.5 that Jesus' brothers had no faith in Jesus.
In Mark 3.21, they even went as far as saying that he has gone out of his mind.
So Jesus' brothers had no faith in Jesus.
And then Jesus appeared to James.
And he changed.
Now he had faith.
And the brothers had faith.
In Acts 1.14, Jesus' brothers are mentioned together with the congregation.
They are praying with the congregation.
I mean, they were unbelievers.
Jesus appeared to them or appeared to James.
And they became believers.
And then there's Paul.
Paul referred to himself in verse 8.
But last of all, he appeared also to me as to one born prematurely.
So what about Paul?
Did he really believe that he had seen Jesus resurrected?
Yeah, he did.
Do you think of how he changed his life?
His life was changed upside down.
You could say that before this,
he was living in the upper circles of society of his day.
Or he lived on first class.
Then he saw Jesus resurrected and everything changed for him.
We find a description of it in 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 23.
1 Corinthians 11, 23 through 27.
Again, I'm not going to read all of it.
There's some...
He mentioned that he was imprisoned often.
Accountless beatings.
Many near death.
Five times 40 strokes.
Less one.
Three times beaten with rods.
Stone, shipwrecked.
Endangers from rivers.
From rubbers.
From our own people.
Endangers from the nations.
Endangers in the city.
Wilderness at sea among false brothers.
In labor and toil.
In sleepless nights often.
In hunger and thirst.
Frequently without food.
In cold and lacking clothing.
I mean, who wants to live a life like this?
Do you think Paul would be willing...
You know, he went from first class to living a life like this.
Would he be willing to do that if he wasn't sure?
But he went through all of this because he had seen Jesus resurrected.
I mean, these witnesses, they are solid.
They can be believed.
The life they lived after seeing Jesus resurrected proved that they were absolutely sure.
They had seen Jesus resurrected.
So what does that mean for us?
Well, everything.
If we go back to Paul's words there in 1 Corinthians 15, 17,
well, then our faith is not useless.
Jesus was resurrected.
He went to heaven.
He appeared in front of his father.
He handed over the value of his sacrifice.
The ransom was paid.
So then there's forgiveness for sins.
There's going to be a resurrection.
There's going to be a new world.
It's going to be life and everlasting life.
I mean, this is going to happen.
All of it is going to happen.
It's guaranteed by a Jesus' resurrection.
It also means that we can go on walking in the choose no matter what comes our way.
We saw what happened to the 12th and to the 500.
But because they had a strong faith in Jesus' resurrection,
they could endure even persecution.
Hopefully we won't have to go through everything that Paul went through,
but we know that we have difficult days ahead of us.
But because we have a strong faith in Jesus' resurrection,
we can go on walking in the truth.
And like our brothers and sisters in the first century,
we can also endure persecution or even death,
because we know that there's going to be a resurrection.